In this video, we are going to talk about the major breakthrough,
the start of deep reinforcement learning era.
In particular, we are going to talk about DQN.
Deep Q-network, introduced in 2013 by Google DeepMind.
Despite the fact that it was not the first work that was shown to be
successful in playing Atari games using neural networks,
it is a good didactic example of various practical tricks
which became standard for many generations of algorithms.
In fact, DQN is the first successful application of learning
directly from raw visual inputs in the same fashion as humans do,
and in the wide variety of environments.
The main component of a DQN was the deep convolutional network which
worked on raw images without any hand-designed features.
And algorithmically, DQN is no more than
standard Q-learning stuffed with various stability tricks.
Why have you chosen to present this algorithm?
Well, mostly because two reasons,
it is simple and very useful to learn,
and it is very influential.
In deep reinforcement learning so much is going on nowadays,
but very many different algorithms are in some sense inspired by the DQN work.
So, it is worse to know this basic and very practical algorithm in detail.
I have already mentioned that the basic algorithm used in DQN was Q-learning,
and we are not going to present it again.
Instead, we will concentrate more on tricks and tips introduced in the DQN paper.
So, let's start with one of the most important things
where the architecture of the Q-network.
The architecture was composed of three convolutional layers,
one on top of another,
and one dense layer on top of the last convolutional one.
Well, the architecture is rather standard for processing images.
But what was the input?
That is a little bit tricky.
In the simplest case,
it should be the screen of Atari game, but it is not.
Well, in any practical application,
the first thing you should consider to do is to
reduce the complexity of the task as much as you
could before starting any attempts to solve this task.
In the reinforcement learning world,
it mostly means reducing the space of states as much as you could.
Reducing the state's base in the context of Atari games
basically consist in gray-scaling, downsampling, and cropping.
All these operations were performed in the original approach.
At first, a colored Atari screen image which is 210 wide and
160 pixels high was gray-scaled and downscaled to 110 by 84.
Then it was cropped to a square region of 84 by 84 pixels.
And in the end,
an interesting transformation was reformed.
Four consecutive pre-processed frames were stacked while on top of
another forming at denser of 84 by 84 by 4.
That denser with four stacked images was fitted into a four layered neural network that
predicted Q-values for all of the possible actions which number varied between 4 and 18.
After each action performed,
the four layer denser of observation was changed.
The oldest frame was thrown away,
and the most recent one that is a new observation was added.
And there is an interesting moment which is worth discussing concerns poolings.
As you might know, poolings,
especially max poolings are
ubiquitous in neural network architectures designed to work with images.
But in this architecture,
you don't see any pooling layers.
What is the reason for this? What do you think?
In general, pooling layers don't have any parameters but they consume
computational resources and more importantly, they require time.
And time is a very valuable resource.
If you train on many games,
the algorithm which requires very many interactions with the environment, time do matter.
In fact, in the original approach on each environment,
DQN was trained for 10 million of iterate in directions.
Well, authors throw away the pooling layers,
but to achieve the same rate of
dimensional reduction they introduce stride in the first two convolutional layers.
These strides in convolutional layers effectively combines
in one layer was convolutional layer and sort of pooling.
While not introducing additional computation on demand
on operations which do not have any learnable parameters.
Well, that is rather interesting idea.
But what about an input in the neural network?
Why do authors require four stack images as an input to the neural network?
The answer to this lies in what one image represents.
Imagine for a moment that you are playing the Brick Out game,
and on the next time tick you obtain the image plotted on the left.
Look at the left image.
What are you going to perform right now?
What action is the best in this state?
What direction should you move the paddle?
To the left or to the right?
Well, that is a question which has no right answer.
Decision based solely on the one image plotted on the left isn't optimal because
no one can infer the direction and speed with
which the ball is moving solely from that one picture.
This lack of comprehensive information in an observation is called partial observability.
An environment with incomplete information in an observations is called POMDP,
that is a partially observable Markov decision process.
The tasks which require this model which works with
partial observability are very interesting to research,
and POMDP is in fact standalone array of research in the reinforcement learning.
Techniques and algorithms developed for dealing with
partial observable Markov decision processes are a lot more
involved than the analects dealing with Markov decision processes.
And this is one of the reasons why we are
not going into detail about partial observable Markov decision processes.
However, we are going to discuss this trick
of stacking four images in a row a little bit further.
In the simple case of Atari games,
it was shown that stacking four images in a raw completely removes partial observability.
And it is clear why,
if you are given two or three images in a row,
images of a Brick Out Atari games screen,
you can easily just determine which direction the ball is flying,
and possibly make some guess about with what speed that do so.
These tricks works well for velocity, acceleration,
and various things that depends on very small amount of recent images.
However, this trick fails for anything that depends on number of frames longer than four.
More to see in practice,
nobody knows how many frames are needed to be included in observational denser.
And even if one do know this number,
it may quickly becoming practical for very large numbers.
Because of that, in the case when you don't know and nobody tell you what
is a perfect number of images you should stack in the observation denser,
I recommend to resort to
partially observable Markov design process theory and algorithms.
However, this trick of four stacked frames can be also
interpreted as an assumption of first-order Markov property.
That is the next state and next reward
coming depend not only on the previous state and action,
but also on the state and action at luck one, two, and three.
However, when we stack only observations and do not include the previous sections done,
we effectively model the assumptions that next
state and what does not depend on previous sections.